Week 1
Class 9/3/2024
Due 9/10/2024

Chapter 1
Chapter Review Questions
1. What are the characteristics and traits that you possess that are common to all successful managers?
2. Why should management be considered an occupation rather than a profession?
3. How do managers learn how to perform the job?
4. Explain the manager’s job according to Henry Mintzberg.
5. What responsibilities do managers have towards people within the organization? How do they express
these responsibilities?
6. How do managers perform their job according to John Kotter?
7. How do managers make rational decisions?
18 Chapter 1 Managing and Performing
This OpenStax book is available for free at http://cnx.org/content/col28330/1.8
8. How does the nature of management change according to one’s level and function in the organization?
9. Discuss the role of management in the larger societal context. What do you think the managers of the
future will be like?
10. Identify what you think are the critical issues facing contemporary management. Explain.

Chapter 2
Chapter Review Questions
1. What are some of the factors that enabled to Jen Rubio and Stephanie Korey to make good decisions
when they established their luggage company, Away?
2. What are the two systems that the brain uses in decision-making? How are they related to programmed
and nonprogrammed decisions?
3. What is a heuristic, and when would it be appropriate to use a heuristic for decision-making?
4. What is confirmation bias? Explain how it can be a barrier to effective decision-making.
5. What is a logical fallacy?
6. What are the two types of conflict? Which one is constructive, and which is destructive?
7. What are the steps in the decision-making process? Which ones do people tend to skip or spend
insufficient time on?
8. What can individuals do to improve the quality of their decision-making?
9. What can groups or group leaders do to improve the quality of group decision-making?
10. What are the benefits of decision-making in a group, instead of individually?