Management Final
December 2024

1.	You are hired as the new CEO of a firm. You want to evaluate the Human resources department and its process. What are three important factors you wish to see of the department? Does it function in ways you wish it to?

HR departments have evolved from a basic administration organization, overseeing activities like hiring and firing, compensation, pensions, and legal compliance, to integrated, forward facing organizations developing innovative practices, integrating with the business' overall strategy, and shaping shareholders perseptions. If I were to select the three most important categories to evaluate they would be compliance, Performance management and reward strategies and practices, and alignment with business strategy.
Legal compliance is still one of the most important functions HR performs. If compliance is not maintained it can cause great harm, even termination, of the business. It's important for HR to maintain clear documentation of regulations pertaining to the industry, and industries in general. These should be available and clearly and regularly communicated to all levels of the management team and their reports. Most organizations have annual reinforcement through obligitory training and require employees to pass tests demonstrating they understand.

A solid performance management and reward strategy should evaluate and motivate employees. The strategy should be clearly communicated to employees so that they understand what is expected from them and what they can expect in return. The performance evaluation should identify high performers and employees with high potential. This is important for retaining talent, and integrates with succession planning. Reward systems like 'pay-for-performance' motivate employees by implementing a merit system that rewards high-performers and improves outcomes like productivity and the achivement of business goals. Also, innovative rewards plans can help give the business a competitive advantage by retaining and attracting top talent.

HR's strategy should be driven by the business' strategy and should be involved in it's development. Understanding the longer term business strategy helps to identify future projects and the roles and needs they will require. This helps in several ways. Knowing what roles will be needed in the near future can drive HR's aquisition strategy, defining the roles that need to be filled. In the longer term HR can forcast needs like succession planning, and leverage feedback from the performance management process to identify potential successors from the internal talent pool, and put together a development plan. And as an outward facing entity, HR can use it's integration with the business strategy to develop it's approach to shaping sharholder perceptions.


2.	You are considering several candidates you manage now for a promotion to new manager. What is some criteria you will use to select the best person for the job?

Criteria to select an employee is based on their past performance, their fit for the role, and their potential. When considering an employee for promotions, some questions to ask are:

Does this person perform at a high level? The performance management process should identify this person as a high-performer.

Does this person show potential? Potential is an evaluation of how the employee could advance within the organization. Determine if they are capable and willing. One indicator would be if they already take on, or are willing to take on, additional responsibility.

Does the person require additional development or are they ready to lead today? Sometimes a high-performing, high-potential employee is not a good fit for the role, or still requires more seasoning before stepping into a leadership position.

Does this person demonstrate leadership qualities like modeling values, and the ability to influencing others? Some indication of potential and leadership ability is if the person is already an emergent leader. This could be through knowledge, charisma, or expertise. If they are already recognized as an informal leader on the team they are more likely to be a good fit for the role. 


3.	You are a newly hired manager at a firm. The staff have mostly been in place for a few years. What are some steps you will take to ensure a productive, professional relationship with this staff. How and what must you do?

[Leadership]
Common across several styles of leadership are two approaches Fiedler's contingency model describe as relationship oriented and task oriented. Studies at Ohio State University and the University of Michigan identified these general two styles as well. These should not be seen as mutually exclusive and should be applied situationally. Relationship oriented leadership (what Ralph Stogdill's researchers at OSU would call Consideration) involves recognizing the employee as an individual, being supportive, respeciting their feelings and their ideas, developing a repore. Task oriented leadership (what OSU would call Initiating strucutures) involves identifying and managing work that needs to be done, providing direction to accomplish it, establishing proceedures, setting performance standards, and coordiating resources. What this tells us is that a leader needs to build relationships with their reports to understand them as individuals, and set out unambiguous goals and provide support, and a plan to achive them. In this way the leader cultivates respect and communication.

[Management]
Every organization has internal and external stakeholders. A leader needs to identify their organization's stakeholders and develop relationships with them. Some of these stakeholders may become an ally in achiving the organization's goals. Others may need influencing to prevent them from getting in the way.

Every team has goals that need to be met. A manager has many tools at their disposal to help achive them. For expert teams, a manager can support decision making, resolve conflicts, and set high level direction. For more mechanistic teams a manager can set proceedures and expectations, clearly define roles, and provide incentives in the form or rewards and recognition. For all teams, a manger can define what success looks like, and provide support in achiving it.


4.	You are the new College president of ACME university. You are afraid of what has been occurring around the country to other schools (closing!). You decide to do a SWOT analysis of this industry. What might you find? 

Presupose ACME University is a medium sized traditional school with minimal online options. SWOT stands for Strength, Weakness, Opportunity, and Weakness. For the first two (SW), an honest look at the organization is required. What are it's strengths and what are it's weaknesses. For the last two (OT), the organization must consider the factors in the external competitive environment and assess their impact on the organization. A SWOT analysis is limited by the imagination of the people performing it.

Strengths: ACME University has a history of excellence. As a smaller univeristy, it can provide a more personalized education. It is an accredited school. It offers a wide range of traditional degrees and programs. And it is respected in acedemia. It has classrooms, dormatories, and sports facilities. It provides students with the traditional college experience.

Weaknesses: Like many schools, ACME U. has a limited working budget. It is primarily funded by tuition. Maintaining a physical campus and the necessary staff to do so is expensive. ACME U. has a fairly traditional curriculum. Facilities are expensive and some are outdated. In person classes require commuting and scheduling that may be prohibitive to some potential students.

Opportunities: ACME U. could expand it's online offerings. This would allow it to reach more students and generate more revenue without having to provide as many services as with in-person students, or significantly increasing spending on facilities. It could also create a more flexable schedule by providing courses that can be participated in when the student has available time. More modern programs, in particular in the STEM area, could be added to attract more students. Unlike new online schools, ACME has an established reputation for excellence.

Threats: Lower cost two year and online schools, and the movement towards free public colleges, may reduce enrollment numbers. 100% online schools have a lower maintenence cost, and create flexability for non-traditional students to work around their schedule.


5.	You manage a department of 15 people. Two of the staff seem to be perpetually unhappy and rarely complete their workload. What are 3 or 4 strategies you might use to motivate them and ensure they are productive members of the department? What would Maslow say?

Different individuals are motivated through different means. Coonversations with the unhappy employee could reveal the reasons and point to appropriate methods of motivation. The text breaks theories of motivation into two categories, process motivation and content motivation.
Process theories focus on peoples behaviors. The Operant Conditioning Theory presents three steps to learning: stimulus, response, and consequence. Management can influence the inputs (stimulus) and output (consequence) to increase or decrease the employee's behavior (response). Negative behaviors can be reduced by punishment (a negative consequence) or nonreinforcement (doing nothing), while positive behaviors can be reduced through positive reinforcement (a reward), negative reinforcement (removing something negative), or avoidance learning (incentivising behavior that avoids an undesired consequence).
Equity Theory suggests employees can by unhappy if they perceive that their contributions are not valued or are not valued as highly as what they percieve as the same level of contribution by other coworkers. In this case transparency around compensation and reward might help resolve their unhappiness. An employee might also benefit from clarified role perception. Perhaps they are over valuing their contribution because they don't fully understand what their role entails, and so don't know they are underperforming. It's also possible the employee simply doesn't find personal satisfaction in their work. If the person has potential, modifying their role to include intrisic (personally gratifying) outcomes could help them raise their level of performance.
Other process theories like the Goal Theory and Expectancy theory suggest that clear goal setting, and setting goals with purpose that the employee can recognize the value in, can help to motivate employees to exert more effort and produce better outcomes. So sometimes it may be as simple as matching the employee with the correct opportunites.
Content theories of motivation focus on needs. modern content theories start on the foundation of the Manifest Needs Theory that identified 6000 needs. These needs were broken into two categories, primary and secondary. Primary needs are considered instinctive, physiological needs like sex, food, and drink. Secondary needs are considered learned, like recognition, affiliation, and love. Theories building on this break needs into two or more categories as well. The theories apear to agree that if lower needs need are not met, workers will not be able to perform well; And that roles that allow them to meet their higher needs will motivate them to perform at a high level.
Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs uses five catgegories: physiological and survival, safety and security, and social needs, ego and esteem, and self-acutalization. 
Maslow would say that organizations benefit from employees that are able to fulfill needs 4 and 5 (ego and esteem, and self-acutalization) in his Hierarchy of Needs. Organizations can help their employees achieve this by helping them meet the first three (physiological and survival, safety and security, and social needs). This can be accomplished by providing adequate pay, a safe work environment, and positive group dynamics. These are needs that typically can be influenced by the organization.
