pp. 519	1 - 17

1. What are the key differences between a team and a working group?
Team are organized to work together, to share accountability, to have a common purpose. For example, a team might be sharing a project to create a specific product together, like a web application or a collection of toys.
Working groups are typically a functional group. They have a leader that sees over a group of individuals with individual accountability and products. For example, a working group might be the accounts recievable or accounts payable department.

2. At what stage of team development does the team finally start to see results?
Tuckman’s Stages of Group Development proposes four stages of team development. They are:
Forming: The "polite stage." The team is looks to the leader for structure direction. Members are enthusiastic. Ambiguous.  
Storming: The "win-lose stage." Individuals test the group, look for dominance and control in the team. Frustration with goals, tasks, progress.  
Norming: Team stats to work well. Members buy-in to the goals. Members begin to respect each other and what they have to offer.  
Performing: Shared vision and team identity. Self directed and enthusiastic. The team has the posibility of becoming high performing, optimizing tasks and interpersonal relationships to maximize team effectiveness.  
Results start to be realized in the performing stage.


3. What can cause a team to digress to an earlier stage of team development?
Intrduction of new variables like new members, projects, tasks can change team dynamics or otherwise be disruptive enough to cause the team to regress to earlier stages of development.

4. What can a team leader do to manage the team's boundaries?
Managing a teams boundries involves acting as a boundry between the team and external forces that might interupt, distract, or derail the team. It also involves recognizing stakeholders that are both in favor of the teams success, and for whatever reason would prefer it to fail. Steps that the manager can take to help the team succeed include building relationships with stakeholders that can impact the teams outcomes, and educate stakeholders about elements in the environment that are interfering with the teams success. These can include organizational structures, systems, and company politics, to name a few.  

5. How does managing conflict help a team learn and grow?
Conflict is generally seen as a negative, and can cause disruption and mistrust within the group. However it can also expose diverse and opposing view points and enhance problem solving, highlight contentions and content that need to be addressed. If the members of the team trust each other they can work through conflict to be a stronger, more productive team from the experience.  

6. What are some strategies to make conflict more productive?
Teams may avoid open conflict to protect teammates feelings. Unfortunately the conflict is still there and may express itself in more insidious ways.  
Two strategies to help manage conflict and make it more productive are conflict mining and real-time permission. Conflict mining requires one team member to extract the hidden disagreements and call them out. Real-time permission invloves recognizing when the dialog around a conflict becomes uncomfortable for one or more team members (contentious, even), and interupting to remind the team the purpose of the discourse, which is to build trust and make the team stronger and more productive.  
Leaders can facilitate a teams growth by addressing conflicts, bringing them out to be discusses and resolved. This will help build a successful team. Supressing conflict, on the other hand, will undermine the team's success.
Individuals respond differently. By recognizing that there are constructive and destructive, and active and passive ways to respond to conflict, leaders can better help the team to respond to conflict. The goal in responding to conflict is to have a positive result. Constructive approaches, active and passive, can be encouraged and encourage dialog, learning, and resolution.

7. Why are diverse teams better at decision-making and problem-solving?
There is a statistically significant corrolation between diversity and greater innovation. Evidence shows that diverse teams are more likely to examine and reexamine facts, verify facts, and rely on facts when making decisions. It is believed that homoginous teams are more suseptible to groupthink, less likely to recognize biases, or to consider opposing views. Diverse teams tend to scrutinize, and encourage scrutiny of each others ideas. They appear to make fewer factual errors.  

8. Why do diverse teams utilize data more often than homogeneous teams?
In diverse teams, each member of the team arrives with different sets of biases. By utilizing and scrutinizing data they are able to disern what is factual and what is not. Because they do not all share the same biases they must recognize and defend or abandon their personal biases based on factual information.

9. What are some of the challenges that multicultural teams face?
The Harvard Business Review article  "Managing Multicultural Teams" lays out four key cultural differences that can challenge the success of multi-cultural teams. They are:
1. Direct vs indirect communication
2. Trouble with accents and fluency
3. Differing attitudes towards hierarchy
4. Conflicting decision-making norms
Direct vs indirect communication: Direct cultures use and are used to explicit communications, while indirect cultures often ask questions to shape the conversation, rather than direct confrontations. Each may percieve the other as rude or unproductive.  
Trouble with accents and fluency: In multi-lingual groups, one language will usually become dominant, dominishing the ablility of non-fluent member's to contribute. The two sides of this are that the non-fluent individual feels left out of the process, while the fluent individuals may perceive them as under-contributing.  
Differing attitudes towards hierarchy: Members from cultures that are highly respectful of hierarchy may feel disrespected by members from more egalitarian cultures, which can be counter productive to the goals of the group.  
Conflicting decision-making norms: Some cultures prepare their positions, analysis, and expectations well in advance of the initial discussion and expect a quick process. Other cultures take a great deal of time considering the proposed decisions, which can frustrate those members expecting a quick resolution.  

10. What are the key sources of cultural intelligence?
In Lee and Liao's IESE Insight 2015 article "Cultural Competence: Why It Matters and How You Can Acquire It" the authors suggest some ways to raise personal awareness of cultural differences are to consume media from other cultures, travel, and build relationships with individuals from other cultures. They strongly recommend working on cross-cultural teams, befriending foreign co-workers, and working abroad.

Tsedal Neeley's 2014 Harvard Business Review article, "Getting Cross-Cultural Teamwork Right" discusses three approaches to bridging the cultural gap:
Mutual Learning: Members learn from each other by observing and listening to each other.  
Mutual understanding: Members look to understand the logic and reason behind cultural behaviors.  
Mutual teaching: Members share the cultural explanation of their own behaviors in hopes of resolving any misunderstandings.  

Christopher Earley and Elaine Mosakowski wrote a 2004 article for the Harvard Business Review called "Cultural Intelligence". In it they presented three models (or tools) to help better develop cultural intelligence. They are "head", "body", and "heart":  
The head: Educate oneself about the culture to better understand it.  
The body: Take on the physical behaviors to better assimilate and connect with others.  
The heart: Have the self-confidence to commit to understanding the culture.  
