Peter Farrar	MG 101 PRINCIPLES OF MANAGEMENT
Class Nbr 1084 Class Sect 065	Homework 3

1. What is the difference between ethics and business ethics?
Ethics can vary from individual to individual. They are the result of many factors including, but not limited to societal norms, family, religion, environment.
Business ethics are the application of ethics centered on business transactions. Ethics in business, or the lack there of, can impact the greater society. Hasbro was presented in the text as a business actively trying to have a positive impact on climate change. Enron, in contrast, let greed and deception drained $67 billion dollars out of the U.S. economy.

2. What is normative ethics?
Normative ethics asks the 'should' and 'ought' of how we behave.

3. Why are values an important element of ethics for individuals and organizations?
Values direct choices. Choices lead to outcomes. Some outcomes are better than others. Clear values can help lead to better outcomes for individuals and organizations.

4. What are the differences between instrumental and terminal values?
Instrumental values are approaches to achieve a goal or goals. Terminal values are the goals.
Instrumental values include being bold, honest, fair, loving, polite.
Terminal values include security, happiness, passion, friendship.

5. Can an individual be ethical without using ethical principles described in the chapter? Explain.
Yes.
"Ethical comes from the Greek ethos "moral character" and describes a person or behavior as right in the moral sense - truthful, fair, and honest."  
There is the notion that most people don't actually consciously recognize what their values are or where they came from. Values are derived from the environment in which one is raised. This can include role-models like parents, teachers, religious figures; It can include teachings from philosophers like Plato, authors like J.K. Rawlings and J.R.R. Tolkien, television and movie characters, politicians; They can be learned through interactions with peers, adults, extended family, and many more. Although the text identifies self-awareness, awareness of their ethical values, as essential to being able to think through alternative decisions and recognize the possible outcomes, good and bad, I believe (using the definition above) that an individual can be ethical without a deeper understanding of their ethical values.

6. Identify major classical ethical principles.
•	Utilitarianism
•	Universalism
•	Legal and Moral Rights
•	Justice
•	Virtue
•	Common Good
•	Ethical Relativism

7. Differentiate between the principle of rights and utilitarianism and between justice and universalism.
The principle of rights and utilitarianism differ greatly, at least at first glance. While Utilitarianism can justify any action that leads to the best outcome for the most stakeholders, the principles of rights are spelled out in a moral context. There are laws, and there are moral values that are based on social norms. On the face of it these lay out the basis of ethical behaviors used to achieve outcomes. However, there is an element of vagueness that could skew the guiding values. Who is deciding what norms are? How are they being interpreted? The person claiming moral high ground may have no morals at all.
The principles of Justice and Universalism both value fairness, and avoiding harm to those effected by the decision being made. While Universalism is concerned with individual needs and values, Justice values the social equality of all individuals. Justice seeks to bring equity to the group, using compensation and punishment where needed. Much like the principal of Rights, there is some question about who defines values like right and wrong, what is harmful, who determines punishments and compensations.

8. Why is leadership important for ethical conduct in corporations?
Leaders establish the organization’s mission, values, and vision. Typically, the leaders own values become the organization's values. Setting these values and being authentic in holding and modeling these values will impact worker satisfaction and productivity, and be integral at aligning employees for the common goals of the organization.

9. Identify two types of ethical leaders and the important role each plays.
Two types of ethical leadership styles are Stewardship and Servant leadership.
Stewardship is caring about and empowering people. It is considering the impact of decisions on the greater community and decentralizing the decision-making process to give say to all shareholders across the organization.  
Servant leadership is like stewardship, but more passionately committed to the cause. Servant leaders don't need to take credit for successes. They are able to inspire others to serve as well. A servant leader will have a positive impact on their community and the individuals within.  

10. What is the difference between ethics and compliance in organizations?
Carrot and Stick, two necessary elements of an ethical corporate culture.  
Ethics are a values-based approach to motivating appropriate behaviors within the organization.  
Compliance is a rules-based approach, backed up by consequences.  
Both are necessary to motivate proper ethical and legal behavior within the organization.  

11. What is CSR, and why is it important?
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a belief that beyond merely a fiscal responsibility to their shareholders, corporations are part of, and have a role to play in, society, and an obligation to make decisions with the best interest of society in mind.  
Many people (think potential customers), especially younger people, will select brands, and just as importantly discontinue selecting brands, based on CSR. Cumulatively, this can impact a company’s bottom line. For example, I haven't stopped at a BP gas station since the Deepwater Horizon explosion and spill in 2010.

12. What is stakeholder management?
Stakeholder management is the idea that corporations should consider all the relationships that impact the companies’ actions, and that the companies’ actions impact.
The belief behind this is that ultimately identifying and respecting all stakeholders when making decisions will lead to increased financial performance.

