1. Explain how several current environmental forces are affecting and will affect organizations and organizational structures’ effectiveness and efficiency in the near future?
Digital technology affects most aspects of an organization. They can improve customer acquisition and retention, product delivery. They can add efficiencies by automating tasks and reporting, for example. They also provide security challenges, as poor security can lead to data breaches. Data breaches can include organizational secrets/proprietary information. They can also expose customer data, which can impact an organization's reputation and customer trust.
The sharing-economy of companies like Uber, Lift, AirBnB, and Vrbo use technology to connect customers with individuals offering services like ride sharing and short-term rentals efficiently, bypassing other layers of middlemen that would be found in a traditional business model.
Gobalization impacts organization on many levels. Supply lines are multinational and can be impacted by sociocultural, economical, political forces, as well, as we’ve seen, global pandemic. Manufacturing is likewise distributed across wide geographic range. Cars, for example, can have parts manufactured in multiple countries, assembled in pieces across multiple locations, and finally those pieces assembled in yet another location. Salaries in highly developed economies are also impacted by outsourcing positions and insourcing foreign workers. 

2. What are ways to classify and describe how industries and organizations fit and do not fit with their external environments?
The text classifies outside factors into the following categories:
•	sociocultural
•	technological
•	economical
•	government and political
•	natural disasters
•	human-induced problems
An organization’s “fit” can be evaluated based on the uncertainty of environmental forces. Categorized as Low Uncertainty to High Uncertainty, that rating is based on the number of external elements and how similar they are, and how frequently they change. An organization with few and similar external elements that generally remain the same is said to have Low Uncertainty, one with many dissimilar external elements that change frequently are said to have Hich Uncertainty, and the rest fit in somewhere in between.

3. What are a few industries and/or organizations that are fitting well with their current environments? What are a few that are not? Why?
Disruptive sharing-economy companies are taking advantage of new technologies to outperform older models within their industries. Examples are ride-shares like Uber and Lift, that displace traditional transportation services like limousines and taxis, property sharing services like AirBnB and VRBO provide short term rentals that compete (and often out compete) hotels and resorts. Sharing-economy companies’ success can in part be attributed to their convenience, as well as lower cost, and at times higher efficiency.
Traditional travel agencies are also in decline, unable to match the speed and convenience of online options like Orbitz and Kayak. Streaming services like Netflix provide a high-definition movie experience well below the cost of a movie theater, and are cutting into viewership in the cinema space. Companies like Zillow and Compass are thriving, providing high quality services to real-estate agents. These companies use the internet to bring together many agents and consumers on one well branded platform.
Amazon has moved from selling books to selling just about everything, becoming the big box store in the cloud. By leveraging technology and building a complex distribution/delivery system, they are able to deliver a wide range of products to consumers, typically within a couple of days (sometimes the same day). The convenience and speed gives them a tremendous advantage over traditional brick and mortar retailers.
 
4. What are some major differences between organic and mechanistic organizational structures and systems?
Mechanistic organizational structures are little changed from the way industry structured organizations 100 years ago. They have strict hierarchies, departments are highly specialized, communication is vertical. Managers in mechanistic organizational structures have a small number of reports and decision-making is highly structured, based on authority. Tasks are specialized and clearly defined.
Many modern companies, especially those operating in an unstable, highly uncertain environment, have moved to an organic organizational structure. Organic organizational structures have fewer rules, are less hierarchical, encourage more participation in the decision-making process and open communication. Managers have more reports and communication is not limited to their vertical. This seems to be advantageous in highly competitive, high paced environments with rapid change and high uncertainty, like high tech industries (aerospace, telecommunications).

5. Which organization would you work best in, an organically or mechanistically structured one, and why?
I have worked in both organically and mechanistically structured organizations with success.
My work in mechanistic organizations involved tasks like putting things in boxes, moving and delivering furniture, making beverages or sandwiches, mapping data transactions into and out of databases. This is not bad work, but at times it can be tedious.
My work in more organic organizations include designing and implementing integrations between health insurers and the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, building out APIs for Customer Service Orchestration software, leveraging generative AI to create unit tests for legacy software.
I prefer organic organizations because I find them more mentally stimulating and more creative. Those roles also tend to pays better.

6. What are some advantages and disadvantages of functional structures?
Functional structures are very good at producing products in simple, stable industries. The example of a beverage container manufacturer is a good one. The materials are readily available, tasks are well established, teachable, and documentable. Workers can be specialized, as can verticals. The process is repetitive and a top-down hierarchical decision-making structure will be effective here. They are easy to scale up and benefit from the economies of scale.
Functional structures are not capable of rapid change, creating new, innovative products, adapting to significant or frequent changes in their external environment. Producing cell-phones or graphic processors would not be well served by a highly vertical, top-down decision-making organization as they are highly siloed, and tend to have poor communication across departments and poor cross departmental decision-making.

7. Do you think it’s true that every organization has a hidden functional structure in it? Explain your answer.
Yes.
Every organization I have been a part of, whether mechanistic or organic in nature, has some level of hierarchy, with front-line managers reporting to middle managers, who in turn report up the ladder to the owners or C-level managers. Every organization I've been in has zones of specialization, and roles that are more repetitive and specialized. Although organistic organizations promote horizontal communication and encourage and facilitate coordination and collaboration, I've never not seen at least pockets of silo like behavior, obstructionism and knowledge hording.
I think it’s a fair statement to say that all structures as categorized and discussed in the text evolved from and are built on a foundation of the functional structure.

8. Why have functional structures been criticized for not accommodating new changes in the environment?
The rigidity, siloed nature, and hierarchical decision-making of functional structures does not serve well when there are frequent rapid internal and/or external environmental changes, especially in a complex environment.

9. What are some advantages and disadvantages of divisional structures?
Divisional structures create separate departments for products, each with their own department head. Each can be thought of as a separate functional structure. This allows for quicker decision making within that department by decentralizing that process. It allows each department to focus on their own product and goals, keeping responsibilities and expectations clear for workers. Communication within the division across separate internal departments is easier to facilitate. However, these different departments can become insular. They may develop incompatible systems. Communication between similar functions in different divisions may become more difficult, making it more difficult to maintain and communicate the enterprises' common mission, values, and direction.
