pp. 444 1-11

1. Define leadership and distinguish between leadership and management.
Leadership is the ability to direct groups to attain their mutual goals through social influence. Through their relationships and reputation, leaders build buy-in. People give them their power because they want to.

Management, by contrast, is an administrative role. Managers are responsible for planning, organizing, and directing. Their power comes from the structure of the organization. People cede power to them because of their position within the hierarchy.

Effective leadership requires managment ability. Effective management requires leadership.


2. Discuss the processes associated with people coming to positions of leadership.
The processes associated with people coming to leadership positions have five componants:
1. the leader
2. the followers
3. the context
4. the leadership process
5. the consequences  
These componants interact with and influence each other. The successful leader orchestrates these interactions to accomplish the goals of the organization. The process is the development of two way working relationships over time, cultivated to match the individual personalities of the followers. All the members of the group influence, are influenced by, and are part of the context in which goals are defined and outcomes (consequences) achived.  


3. Discuss the different forms of power available to leaders and the effects associated with each.
In the late 1950s, John R. P. French Jr. and Bertram Raven developed the Five Bases of Power model(1). They are:  
Reward power - Power granted because of the perception that a person can grand rewards like power, money, fame.  
Coercive power - Power granted because of the perceptin that a person can punish by means like physical, emotional, financial.  
Referent power - Power granted a [erspm] because of the perception that it is beneficial to be associated or approved by them.  
Expert power - Power granted because of the perception that the person possesses and may share knowledge or expertise that is needed.  
Legitimate power - Power granted by the perception that the person has a right to have power over others. Exaples include legal title (king, policeman), organizational title (manager, director), personal qualities (apperance, charisma), and rationality (evidence based, reasoned).  

It is belived that referent and expert power create the most effective and consistant results because the followers form a strong connection either to the identity of the leader or the commitment to the leader's goals.
Coercive, reward, and legitimate power are belived to be inconsistant. Legitimate power is considered more effective when based in rationality than when it is based in title or position.


4. It has been observed that effective leaders have the "right stuff." What traits are commonly associated with leader emergence and effective leaders?
Edwin Locke identified seven traits of leaders:
1. Drive: A high level of energy, effort, ambition.
2. Leadership motivation: A desire to lead.
3. Honesty and integrity: Truthfulness and alignment between words and actions.
4. Self-confidence: Self assured in one's self, ideas, and abilities.
5. Cognitive ability: Posessing good judgement and able to think analytically, strategically, and multidimensionally.
6. Knowledge of the business: posessing an understanding of the company, industry, and related knowledge.
7. Other traits: Intangibles like charisma, creativity, and adaptability.

Locke belives people with these traits have great leadership potential and that these traits attract followers.  

There does not appear to be a great deal of support for the idea that great leaders are born that way. While genetics does appear to influence some of the necessary qualities, like intelligence and disposition, life experience apears to determine what is expressed and what is suppressed. And many traits, like honesty and self-confidence, appear to be mostly or entirely a product of the environment.

Psycologist Walter Mischel describes behavior as a function of the individual and the situation they are in. In what he calls strong situations personality is suppressed, whereas in weak situations the personality is alowed to express itself. We can equate "strong" to "mechanistic" organizations, and "weak" to "organic" organizations.  
So a person posessing leadership traits may be so constrained in a mechanistic organization that they are unable to express their nature, and their abilities would remain unrecognized. In an organic organization the same person would be more likely able to demonstrate, and be recognized for, their leadership qualities.


5. Both the Ohio State University and University of Michigan leadership studies identified central leader behaviors. What are these behaviors, and how are they different from one another?
Ralph Stogdill's researchers at OSU identified two key sets of behaviors in good leaders, consideration and initiatin structure.  
Consideration refers to a relationship oriented set of behaviors: recognizing them, being supportive, friendly, communicative, representing the interests of his team members, respecting their ideas and their feelings.  
Initiating structure refers to the task oriented set of behaviors: identifying, planning, and scheduling the work that needs to be done and providing direction to accomplish it, solving problems, coordinating resources, setting performance standards and proceedures.

At about the same time as Stogdill's research, similar research was underway at the University of Michigan. And they found two similar sets of behaviors.  
They identified Employee-member-centered behaviors that correlated closely with the consideration behaviors from Ohio State university, and job-centered behaviors that correlated closely with the initiating structures behaviors. The U of M study's findings corrolating so closely with the OSU findings lend credibility to eachother.  

These two sets of behaviors are not part of a binary choice. They can be effectively used together.


6. Blake and Mouton's work with the Leadership Grid® identified several leadership types. What are they, and how does this leadership model look from the perspective of situation theories of leadership?
Robert R. Blake and Jane S. Mouton developed the Leadership Grid (also known as the Managerial Grid) as a way to classify styles of leadership. They rank two axes from 1 (low) to 9 (high), Concern for People and Concern for Production. Five basic breakdowns of this tool are:
1,1: Indifferent (aka Impoverished). Managers have low concern for accomplishing tasks and little concern for the well being of the employee.  
9,1: Controlling (aka Task management). Managers focus on results and have little concern for the well being of the employee. This corrolates well with McGregor's Theory X.  
5,5: Status Quo (aka Middle of the road). Managers try to strike an equal balance between people and production. Neither need is met.  
1,9: Accomodating (aka Country club). Managers focus entire on the needs of the employee. The expectation is that this will motivate employees to perform at a high level. Generally, it is accepted that it doesn't.  
9,9: Sound (aka Team). Managers focus heavily on both the people and the product. Employees are empowered and trusted to perform. This correlates well with McGregor's Theory Y.  

Initially Blake and Mouton believed 9,9 was the superior management style. However it's been shown that while this style is excellent for organizations where job-centered leadership is needed, organizations with highly compenent employees do not require a high level of concern for production. Situational theories suggest that no one leadership style is effective for all situations, and that style and situation need to be matched with eachother.  


7. Identify and describe the three situational variables presented in Fiedler's contingency theory of leadership.
Situational favorableness/situational control describes a leaders ability to control and influence a group to achive the desired outcomes. This is measured by degrees of three factors:  
*  leader-member relations: The group accepts the leader, work well with them, and are loyal to them.  
*  task structure: The leader presents specific, detailed tasks, unambiguous goals, and a plan to achive them.  
*  position power: The leader is able to influence the group.  


8. What are the four leadership behaviors in the path-goal theory of leadership?
1. Supportive ledership: Concerned with the needs of the members.  
2. Directive leadership: Defines rules and procedures, goals and expectations.  
3. Participatative leadership: Consults and includes ideas and definition from expert employees.  
4. Achievement-oriented leadership: Sets goals, challenges employees, demonstraits confidence in the employees abilities to succeed.  


9. Discuss the differences between the internal and external leadership roles surrounding self-managed work teams.


10. What are substitutes for leadership? What are neutralizers? Give an example of each.


11. What are the distinguishing features of the transformational and the charismatic leader?



Footnotes:
(1) https://web.mit.edu/curhan/www/docs/Articles/15341_Readings/Power/French_&_Raven_Studies_Social_Power_ch9_pp150-167.pdf