Page 243 1-12

1. What are the differences between classic, multipreneurs, and intrapreneurs?
Classical entrepreneurs are risk takers. They can fall into other subcategories of entrepreneurs, such as micropreneur or growth-oriented entrepreneur, but share vision, inovation, and drive.
Multipreneurs are serial entreprenurs. They enjoy the process of starting and growing a business. They will start many businesses durring their career.
Intrapreneurs don't start their own business. They exercise their entrepreneurial vision within a larger organization, typically a large corporation. They are afforded a great deal of autonomy to implement their vision, but with the financial backing of the organization and the security of a salary and benefits package.

2. What differentiates an entrepreneur from a small-business owner?
Small business owners are managers who typically start or aquire an existing small business with the intention of staying small. They do not take as much risk as an entrepreneur and do not tend to share the entrepreneurial vision or inovation.
Entrepreneurs take risk, have a vision they pursue, and often start a novel and inovative business. They tend to pursue growth, and pay attention to, and adapt to, change and trends in the marketplace.

3. What are some major factors that motivate entrepreneurs to start businesses?
There are many reasons. To name a few, control of their destiny, freedom from the hassles of working for someone else, they derive satisfaction from the challenges and from working towards and realizing their vision.

4. How can potential business owners find new business ideas?
Many find their idea working in the same or a related industry, perhaps seeing a need to fill. Others have hobbies and intersets that can grow into a business, or find inspiration in school or conversations with others (friends, family, customers), or through other personal experiences, to name a few. 

5. Why is it important to develop a business plan? What should such a plan include?
A solid business plan may be the most important step in starting a business. It identifies the risks and challenges. It lays out the vision and presents it for objective scrutiny. It becomes the initial operating plan.

The text provides nine sections for a successful business plan, summarised as:
* Executive summary - write last. Overview of company.
* Vision and mission statement - concise strategy and philosophy. Company values.
* Company overview - type of company (manufacturing, retail, or service). Background info (if company exists). Form of organization. Name, location, objectives.
* Product and/or service plan - Describe the product/services and it's unique features. Explain why it will apeal to customers. Competitive advantage. Patents, copyrights, trademarks.
* Marketing plan - Identify customers and marketing plan, competition and competitive advanteges, opportunites and threats. distirbution channels, marketing budget, pricing strategies.
* Management plan - Identify the management team, outside resources, investors, and their qualifications, as well as strategy to recruit and/or train talent.
* Operating plan - Explain methods of manufacturing and or operating, facilities, inventory and operations, suppliers, etc.
* Financial plan - Financial statements (for an existing business), records and assumptions. Financing information and strategy.
* Appendix of suporting documents - Everything to support the previous planning sections. Other information regarding culture, vaules, testemonials, resarch summaries.

6. What financing options do small-business owners have? What risks do they face?
There are several basic types of financing. Self financing is when the entrepreneur uses their own savings. Debt is when the entrepreneur borrows funds for the business. And equity is a way to sell partial ownership through stock offerings inorder to raise funds. The latter, using "other peoples money" protects the entrepreneur from some personal responsibility (less financial risk) but also gives some of the decision making power to the investor.
The Small Business Association can also help provide assistance to qualified businesses.

7. How do the small-business owner's and entrepreneur's roles change over time?
As a company grows, an owners role is expected to move away from the minutia and focus more on long term planning and managing employees.

8. What are the benefits to small firms of doing business internationally, and what steps can small businesses take to explore their options?
Opportunities may exist in foreign markets. As economic environments change in the U.S., foreign markets may become more or less appealing. Their are online resources, organizations, and third party specialists that can assist the small business owner in evaluating and implementing these opportunites.

9. Describe the financial and management assistance programs offered by the SBA.
The SBA provides management advice in a number of ways. They have a Business Development Library with publications on many business topics. Through the Office of Business Development and Small Business Development Centers, they offer advice, training, and education. They offer managing consulting services for free through the Service Corps of Retired Executinve (SCORE) and the Active Corps of Executives (ACE). These programs connect small business owners with experienced executives who can help them. The SBA offers online resources and courses for entreprenuers and small-business owners as well.
The SBA offers focused assistance to women and minorities in the form of microloans, spanish language publications and special programs through it's Minority Business Development Agency.

10. What significant trends are occurring in the small-business arena?
Social, demographic, and technilogical changes create opportunities for entreprenurs.
Small businesses are growing in number, especially those started and owned by women. Baby Boomers are also starting more small businesses than younger generations, rather than traditional retirement. And minority owned businesses are growing faster than the average.
Venture capital financing appears to be trending up. San Francisco, New York City Metro, Silicon Valley, and New England, are the top regions for venture capital deals.  


11. How is entrepreneurial diversity impacting small business and the economy?
The majority of new small businesses are being created by minorities, women, and older americans. This entrepreneurial diversity is driving the economy forward. 48% of jobs are in small businesses.

12. How do ethics impact decision-making with small-business owners?
Every entrepreneur brings with them their personal values. These values set the culture of the organization and play a part in decision making. One example from the text was Guild education. They left San Francisco in part because the cost of doing business there was a drain on resources that could be used to grow the buisness. But in choosing a new location they looked to their values. They wanted a family friendly environment for their employees. They compared that decision to Apple's decision to build a basketball court in their new headquarters, but no daycare center.